Add to pingsource.md (#3476)
knative/docs: docs/eventing/sources/pingsource.md

## Before you begin

1. Set up [Knative Serving](../../../serving).
1. Set up [Knative Eventing](../../../eventing).

## About Producers and Consumers

### Producers

Producers create events. Using GitHub as an example, the producer is the GitHub webhook that sends
information when a pull request is created.
Essentially, you ask the producer for events that they are capable of sending and you tell the
producer where to send those events.

Producers send the event data per specifications that make it easy for consumers to handle it.
Knative uses the CloudEvents specifications by default.
For more information, see the [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io/) website.

### Consumers

Consumers consume the data that producers create. Consumers are usually functions.

In the GitHub example above, a consumer might update a ticket in the ticketing system with the data
from the pull request.

## Create a consumer

To verify that the PingSource is working, create a simple Knative service that receives CloudEvents
and writes them to standard out.

{{< tabs name="create-service" default="YAML" >}}
{{% tab name="YAML" %}}
Create the service from standard input by running:

```shell

> cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -

Reviewer: not sure what the reasoning is for using `cat` here as opposed to
```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
```
Slack comment from @evankanderson :
"I think we should do the following:
- Use kubectl apply for files/objects that the user creates — it works for both “create” and “update”, and the source of truth is their local files.
- Use kubectl edit for files which are shipped as part of the Knative software, like the serving/eventing ConfigMaps."

Reviewer: Added something to the style guide for this

Reviewer 2: I think there are two points:

1. This is an "unnecessary cat" shell construction; I'd agree with the format that Ashleigh suggests
2. Prefer `kubectl apply` over `kubectl create` unless you are using `metadata.generateName`, which is probably not a good choice in a tutorial, because you can't predict the actual object name.

apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: event-display
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/eventing-contrib/cmd/event-display
EOF
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}
Create a service using the `kn` CLI:

```shell
kn service create event-display --image gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/eventing-contrib/cmd/event-display
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Create a producer

Create a producer that sends events to your consumer every two minutes.
The `sink` element in the metadata describes where to send events.
In this case, events are sent to a service with the name `event-display`.

For each set of ping events that you want to request, create an event source in the same namespace
as the destination.

{{< tabs name="create-source" default="YAML" >}}
{{% tab name="YAML" %}}
Create the event source from standard in by running:

```shell

> cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -

Reviewer: same as above

apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha2
kind: PingSource
metadata:
  name: test-ping-source
spec:
  schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
  contentType: "application/json"
  data: '{"message": "Hello world!"}'
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}
Create a PingSource by using the `kn` CLI:

```shell
kn source ping create test-ping-source \
  --schedule "*/2 * * * *" --data \
  '{ "message": "Hello world!" }' \
  --sink ksvc:event-display
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="binary" %}}
You can send binary data, that cannot be directly serialized by using YAML, to downstream, by using
`dataBase64` as the payload. `dataBase64` carries data that is base64-encoded.

**Note:** `data` and `dataBase64` cannot co-exist.

> Create the event source with binary data from standard in by running:

Reviewer: I'd leave out "from standard" entirely here.
As an example, I'd prefer
"To create an event source by using binary data, enter the command:"

Reviewer 2: Alternatively, I might call this "stdin", "standard input" (weird, but what STDIN is abbreviated from) or "terminal input".

```shell

> cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -

Reviewer: same as above

apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1beta2
kind: PingSource
metadata:
  name: test-ping-source-binary
spec:
  schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
  contentType: "text/plain"
  dataBase64: "ZGF0YQ=="
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Verify the message was sent

> Verify that the message was sent to the Knative Eventing system by looking at message dumper logs.

Reviewer: Use "Verify that the message was sent" both places?

> Verify that the message was sent to the Knative Eventing system by looking at message dumper logs.

Reviewer 2: I was going to point out that Knative Services may scale down to zero and have their logs recycled, but it occurs to me that the PingSource might be firing just frequently enough to avoid this.

I suspect this will work whether or not the service is getting scaled down to zero because there will be at least one pod running with at least one request in the logs (because the pingsource keeps sending events), so this is mostly a note for other examples.

{{< tabs name="event-display" default="kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="kubectl" %}}

View the logs of the event-display service by running:

```shell
kubectl logs -l serving.knative.dev/service=event-display -c user-container --since=10m
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{% tab name="kail" %}}

Use `kail` to tail the logs of the subscriber by running:

```shell
kail -l serving.knative.dev/service=event-display -c user-container --since=10m
```

> For more information, see the [`kail`](https://github.com/boz/kail) repository in GitHub.

Reviewer: I'd call this out earlier as an optional prereq, e.g. "if you want to view logs, you need to install kail" and add the link there, so it's not being introduced mid procedure

Reviewer 2: +1

You could also reference using log aggregation via https://knative.dev/docs/install/collecting-logs/ as another way to view the logs if desired, but I'm not super-happy with that yet so I don't want to add it to this PR.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Log entries appear showing the request headers and body from the source:

```shell
☁️  cloudevents.Event
Validation: valid
Context Attributes,
  specversion: 1.0
  type: dev.knative.sources.ping
  source: /apis/v1/namespaces/default/pingsources/test-ping-source
  id: d8e761eb-30c7-49a3-a421-cd5895239f2d
  time: 2019-12-04T14:24:00.000702251Z
  datacontenttype: application/json
Data,
  {
    "message": "Hello world!"
  }
```

If you created a PingSource with binary data, the output will be similar to the following:

```shell
☁️  cloudevents.Event
Validation: valid
Context Attributes,
  specversion: 1.0
  type: dev.knative.sources.ping
  source: /apis/v1/namespaces/default/pingsources/test-ping-source-binary
  id: a195be33-ff65-49af-9045-0e0711d05e94
  time: 2020-11-17T19:48:00.48334181Z
  datacontenttype: text/plain
Data,
  ZGF0YQ==
```

## Clean up

Delete the PingSource instance:

{{< tabs name="delete-source" default="kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="kubectl" %}}

> Run:

Reviewer: "To delete the PingSource, enter the command:"

I'd also prefer we have one command per code block, it's not clear to me why both are here, does a user need both, or is the second only if they used the binary data?

```shell
kubectl delete pingsources.sources.knative.dev test-ping-source
kubectl delete pingsources.sources.knative.dev test-ping-source-binary
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}

> Run:

Reviewer: same as above

```shell
kn source ping delete test-ping-source
kn source ping delete test-ping-source-binary
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Delete the service instance:

{{< tabs name="delete-service" default="kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="kubectl" %}}

> Run:

Reviewer: same as above, explain what the step is maybe

```shell
kubectl delete service.serving.knative.dev event-display
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}

> Run:

Reviewer: same as above

---

> title: "PingSource example"

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the heading, is this just an example topic? Where would context info about the source itself be if it's not here?

Author: Yep, I'll remove it.

linkTitle: "PingSource"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
aliases:

>   - ../cronjob-source

Reviewer: I think this needs to be an absolute link, e.g. /docs/whatever/path

Author: Given no alias was present before (I think it was added through some merging accident) I'll simply delete it.

aliases:
  - ../cronjob-source
---

> ![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/API_Version-v1beta2-red?style=flat-square)

Reviewer: Not sure why the badge was removed?
@omerbensaadon is there a decision about whether we're keeping these or not? Eng added them afaik.

Reviewer 3: Don't look at me!

Reviewer 3: We may want to update them for v1 though, yeah?

Reviewer 4: pingsource is v1beta2. No v1 yet.

Reviewer: @RichardJJG I'd leave these in since eng added them please.

Author: Will do (I deleted this by accident anyway, I think)

> This topic explains event-driven architecture in terms of producers and consumers and, to that end,
> shows how to configure PingSource as an event source targeting a Knative Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic explains event-driven architecture in terms of producers and consumers, and shows how to configure PingSource as an event source targeting a Knative service.
```

## Before you begin

1. Set up [Knative Serving](../../../serving).
1. Set up [Knative Eventing](../../../eventing).

> ## Overview

Reviewer: I really don't like overview as a heading - can we just move all the context info to above the "before you begin" instead? That way we're also not mixing steps / instructions and contextual info.

Author: Yep

In event-driven architecture the most straightforward use case is a producer creating an event and a

> consumer acting on that event.

Reviewer: I don't think this needs to be repeated since we have "This topic explains event-driven architecture..." above. I'd choose one and remove the other. I think the previous statement is better but its up to you.

Author: Okay, will do.

### Producers

Producers create events. Using GitHub as an example, the producer is the GitHub webhook that sends
information when a pull request is created.
Essentially, you ask the producer for events that they are capable of sending and you tell the
producer where to send those events.

Producers send the event data per specifications that make it easy for consumers to handle it.
Knative uses the CloudEvents specifications by default.

> For more information, see the [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io/) website.

Reviewer: I don't really think this belongs here honestly, I think all of this info about event-driven etc should be in a main, generic section about event sources, not preceding a procedure on creating an example PingSource?

Author: @omerbensaadon wants it here, AFAIK. We could (should?) re-title this as more of a Getting Started document than a reference topic for PingSource buried way down the subnav.

Author: @abrennan89, it's good content regardless. Where would you rather it be placed?

Reviewer: https://knative.dev/development/concepts/ maybe? Or the main eventing landing page, but both of those require cleanup first. FWIW there's a task for producers and consumers as part of https://github.com/knative/docs/issues/1923, so I'd do it as part of that rather than adding to pingsource.

Reviewer 2: Since we don't have a place for this text right now, would it unblock this PR to add a `<!-- TODO(<issue link>): move this to conceptual documentation when that exists -->` here?

> ### Consumers

Reviewer: same as above, seems like generic info for an "Event sources" landing page

Author: Same as above, @omerbensaadon asked for this doc to be better furnished with detail as part of an effort to making getting started with Eventing easier.

Author: @abrennan89, it's good content regardless. Where would you rather it be placed?

Reviewer: see above

Consumers consume the data that producers create. Consumers are usually functions.

In the GitHub example above, a consumer might update a ticket in the ticketing system with the data
from the pull request.

> ## Create a consumer (Knative service)

Reviewer: Let's not use parentheses in headings, especially since there are many types of consumers not just a ksvc.
It's explained that it's a service in the next paragraph so there's no need to have it here IMO.

Author: Okay

To create a consumer, and verify that `PingSource` is working, create a simple Knative service that

> receives CloudEvents and writes them to stdout.

Reviewer: Formatting - either use `PingSource` or PingSource, cc @omerbensaadon for style guide. Again, if we're going with the k8s, I'd leave out the backticks.

Author: I'll drop the backticks.

> To create a consumer, and verify that `PingSource` is working, create a simple Knative service that
> receives CloudEvents and writes them to stdout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the PingSource is working, create a simple Knative service that receives CloudEvents and writes them to `stdout`.
```

{{< tabs name="create-service" default="YAML" >}}
{{% tab name="YAML" %}}

> Create the service from stdin by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the service from `stdin` by running:
```
What is `stdin`? I don't think this is explained.

Author: I'm assuming it's standard input -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams#Standard_input_(stdin)
Is that the case, @lionelvillard?
If stdin, I don't believe it requires backticks. I've just added suggested rules for this to our style guide.

Reviewer 4: Personally I would remove `from stdin` (all over). Brings no value, only confusion.

Reviewer: @lionelvillard agree

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: event-display
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:

>         - image: gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/eventing-contrib/cmd/event_display

Reviewer: Why remove all of this instead of explaining it?
Also, is it not `event-display`? I could be wrong but would check this with eng.

Author: I received the much abridged example from the Google doc the engineer wrote; I've not deviated from what the engineer wants.

Author: Also, good catch -- @vaikas, this should be `event-display` rather than `event_display`, right?

EOF
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}

> Create the service using the kn command-line interface by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a service using the `kn` CLI:
```
CLI is a common enough term to abbreviate IMO, we use CLI most other places I believe.

Author: Google Style says to spell it out: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#letter-c
We can over-rule, of course, but if so that needs to go in our Word & Phrase list first.

Reviewer: Added to the list, let's overrule it please, I don't think this is an uncommon enough phrase for us to need to spell it out every time.

```shell

> kn service create event-display --image gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/eventing-contrib/cmd/event_display

Reviewer: again, I'd check this image isn't `event-display` rather than `event_display`

Author: `event-display` rather than `event_display`, right, @vaikas?

```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Create a producer (PingSource)

Reviewer: Again, remove parentheses, I don't think there's a need to even mention concepts like producer vs consumer in this doc honestly w/ the exception of if you're explaining them as concepts. I'd just say "Create a PingSource"

@omerbensaadon can we also decide whether to use gerunds in headings please in the style guide. It might be nice if we could have something like the IBM style guide IMO as a reference but idk how licensing and funding for that would work upstream.

Author: The idea is to add just enough conceptual information to put the reader at better ease with the procedure. I can drop the parentheses, though. I like them as a hand-holding way of walking through what's actually going on, but I can see how the reader might think PingSource is the de facto producer.

Create a producer (PingSource) that sends events to your consumer every two minutes.
The `sink` element in the metadata describes where to send events.
In this case, events are sent to a service with the name `event-display`.

> This is a tight connection between the producer and consumer.

Reviewer: Again, remove parentheses. Feels over-explained.
I don't think these all need to be separate lines either, it could just be a paragraph? The flow just feels off here IMO.

I think in general this includes too much context between steps of a procedure - IMO all the conceptual info should go in a generic event sources concept doc and the steps should be in a simple procedural topic.
Also, rather than explaining things like `sink` here, can we use the callout workaround style that was established; https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tigolRzKhronvgoAJfszE-XHWWd0LQ8o_j0D73O9KvM/edit#heading=h.ka7avn97fckt

Author: Okay, I'll cut back a bit.

For each set of ping events that you want to request, create an event source in the same namespace
as the destination.

{{< tabs name="create-source" default="YAML" >}}
{{% tab name="YAML" %}}
Create the event source from stdin by running:

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha2
kind: PingSource
metadata:
  name: test-ping-source
spec:
  schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
  contentType: "application/json"
  data: '{"message": "Hello world!"}'
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}

> Create the event source from the `ping-source.yaml` file by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a PingSource by using the `kn` CLI:
```

```shell
kn source ping create test-ping-source \
  --schedule "*/2 * * * *" --data \
  '{ "message": "Hello world!" }' \
  --sink ksvc:event-display
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## (Optional) Create a PingSource with binary data

Reviewer: I'd make this its own section instead of being optional in an example. By the time a reader gets to here they've created a PingSource with the other methods. Also, please no more parentheses in titles 😂

Author: Yep, makes sense, thanks.

> You might sometimes want to send binary data, which cannot be directly serialized in YAML, to
> downstream. You can do so using `dataBase64` as the payload.
> As the name suggests, `dataBase64` should carry data that is base64-encoded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can send binary data, that cannot be directly serialized by using YAML, to downstream, by using `dataBase64` as the payload. `dataBase64` carries data that is base64-encoded.
```
What is "downstream" here?

> **Note:** `data` and `dataBase64` cannot co-exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You can use either `data` or `dataBase64`, but not both.
```
Explain why?

Author: @lionelvillard, why can't you use both?

Reviewer: ping @lionelvillard

Reviewer 4: Both `data` and `dataBase64` specify the CloudEvent payload, that's why those fields are mutually-exclusive. 

Does that answer your question?

Reviewer 2: Maybe the following text, to clarify why:

```markdown
**NOTE:** Because both `data` and `dataBase64` specify the event payload, only one field may be set.
```

> Create the event source with binary data from stdin by running:

Reviewer: I'd just use PingSource throughout > event source

I think things like `stdin` that refer to something specific should always be in back ticks, and I really think we should explain this cos I don't know what it is. At least maybe add a link explaining it.

Author: I've just added code formatting rules to the Style Guide, which people are free to support/dispute.

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1beta2
kind: PingSource
metadata:
  name: test-ping-source-binary
spec:
  schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
  contentType: "text/plain"
  dataBase64: "ZGF0YQ=="
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```

## Verify the message was sent

Verify that the message was sent to the Knative Eventing system by looking at message dumper logs.

{{< tabs name="view-event" default="kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="kubectl" %}}

> View the logs of the event-display service by running:

Reviewer: Be consistent with names - `event-display`

Author: Good catch, thanks.

Reviewer: don't forget the backticks, not sure why these were removed

```shell
kubectl logs -l serving.knative.dev/service=event-display -c user-container --since=10m
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{% tab name="kail" %}}

Use `kail` to tail the logs of the subscriber by running:

```shell
kail -l serving.knative.dev/service=event-display -c user-container --since=10m
```

For more information, see the [`kail`](https://github.com/boz/kail) repository in GitHub.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Log entries appear showing the request headers and body from the source:

```shell
☁️  cloudevents.Event
Validation: valid
Context Attributes,
  specversion: 1.0
  type: dev.knative.sources.ping
  source: /apis/v1/namespaces/default/pingsources/test-ping-source
  id: d8e761eb-30c7-49a3-a421-cd5895239f2d
  time: 2019-12-04T14:24:00.000702251Z
  datacontenttype: application/json
Data,
  {
    "message": "Hello world!"
  }
```

> If you created a PingSource with binary data, you also see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you created a PingSource with binary data, the output will be similar to the following:
```

```shell
☁️  cloudevents.Event
Validation: valid
Context Attributes,
  specversion: 1.0
  type: dev.knative.sources.ping
  source: /apis/v1/namespaces/default/pingsources/test-ping-source-binary
  id: a195be33-ff65-49af-9045-0e0711d05e94
  time: 2020-11-17T19:48:00.48334181Z
  datacontenttype: text/plain
Data,
  ZGF0YQ==
```

## Clean up

> Delete the PingSource instance:

Reviewer: I'd remove this because it's duplicated in the tabs

Author: I'll delete the duplicate within the tabs.

{{< tabs name="delete-source" default="kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="kubectl" %}}

> Delete the PingSource instance by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the PingSource instance:
```

Author: I think "by running" matters because it better orients readers, especially blind ones. I've written "Documenting Commands" rules in the Style Guide given Google's Style Guide is a little light on them.

```shell
kubectl delete pingsources.sources.knative.dev test-ping-source
kubectl delete pingsources.sources.knative.dev test-ping-source-binary
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}

> Delete the PingSource instance by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the PingSource instance:
```

Author: I think "by running" matters because it better orients readers, especially blind ones. I've written "Documenting Commands" rules in the Style Guide given Google's Style Guide is a little light on them.

```shell
kn source ping delete test-ping-source
kn source ping delete test-ping-source-binary
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Delete the service instance:

Reviewer: Again, delete, repeated in tabs

Reviewer: Otherwise I'd make it a step, e.g.

1. Delete the service instance:
    `<tab>`

but not include the same line in the tabs

Author: Formatting for numbered steps across two tabbed sections seems impossible (or very near it -- I've tried many times). I'll simply leave the full instruction outside the tabs as above.

{{< tabs name="delete-service" default="kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="kubectl" %}}

> Delete the Service instance by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the Service instance:
```

Author: I think "by running" matters because it better orients readers, especially blind ones. I've written "Documenting Commands" rules in the Style Guide given Google's Style Guide is a little light on them.

```shell
kubectl delete service.serving.knative.dev event-display
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab name="kn" %}}

> Delete the service instance by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the service instance:
```

Author: I think "by running" matters because it better orients readers, especially blind ones. I've written "Documenting Commands" rules in the Style Guide given Google's Style Guide is a little light on them.
